we begin with a discussion of
genocide lately this is june 13th 2021
and uh canada manages to keep a pretty
good public profile for itself
we're known as the version of the united
states of america
that didn't start the vietnam war
note that i say we didn't start the
vietnam war i don't say that canada
didn't participate in the vietnam war
didn't fight the vietnam war or oppose
the vietnam war no no
no we did we supported the american side
we fighted blah blah blah we were deeply
involved
and deeply corrupted by the experience
of vietnam war was a big deal for canada
canada also is full of vietnam war vets
contrary to
popular belief but but canada manages to
keep
canada manages to maintain the somewhat
sainted
public profile in international politics
and recently
if you haven't heard 215
graves were discovered at just one
particular
residential school now again if you're
not canadian you may not know
this is a term of art this is a special
piece of jargon
when we say residential school we mean
the special system of schools that was
used
to carry out forced assimilation of our
indigenous people and
and eugenic policies
that included physically depriving them
of the ability
to reproduce and perhaps 6 000 of them
were killed in these schools perhaps 6
000 is a round number
and it's an estimate that as you can
imagine uh does not come out of
social science research as pure as what
i might conduct
myself great question from the audience
james todd asks
isil have you ever considered running
for elected office
so by the way guys i'm happy to digress
i'm happy to talk with what about
whatever's on your mind
[Laughter]
someone else wrote in and said they're
pretty tired of canada
anyway um have i considered running for
elected office the question is where
right the question is where are you
gonna live um
here in victoria bc look the short
answer is yes
the last time we had elections here if
it had been possible for me to get
70 signatures i think it was 70. if it
was 70 or 120.
okay really i don't okay i'm just saying
from memory i thought it was like 70
signatures you needed at the
at the uh at the first stage of the
matriculations i had to go and get 70
cigarettes signature to the first one
and i know look hey you may think my
youtube channel is a huge success i
talked about this
six years ago on the channel no it's not
it's a failure precisely because i can't
get 70 signatures in one place at one
time
so that i could run for so i could stand
for election
why stand for election obviously in my
circumstance
in this city in this culture it wouldn't
be to win but you could at least
bring you know serious questions to to
public attention you could you could
bring you could shift the debate
uh one way or another and i think that
is a very morally real morally important
reason
to participate in elections like i think
there is a moral purpose in losing
in standing up for what you believe for
and giving voice to what you believe in
you know politically what it is you're
striving to achieve and you get to
measure the depth of your rejection
by uh the majority of citizens uh in
your in your
jurisdiction uh thanks for the donation
from creative nothing
uh currently as as humble as the
donations are to this channel they're
the majority
of income uh generational i mentioned to
you i've actually never talked about
this
so we'll get back to you to genocide
you know um you guys might not have
noticed but i disabled the
advertising that interrupts the regular
length videos because it was really
bothering me on youtube the level of
advertising kind of works more
unfortunately even if i disable the
advertising youtube send out a reminder
they have the right to add in
advertising anyway so that's called
mid-roll advertising as opposed to
advertising that's the beginning or the
end
you know end role versus mid-roll um
but anyway on these on these streams
that are two hours long
i have one ad every 30 minutes and then
otherwise
my videos that are under 30 minutes
spending no visual at all so the amount
of advertising
has gone down and these kinds of
donations such as from creative nothing
are now
a larger percentage of the money
generated by this youtube channel than
ever
so yeah obviously if you were in it for
the money you'd have to have your head
examined that's that's ridiculous
um anyway guys i am happy to talk to you
about whatever's on your mind in part
because this isn't the video that i've
come into with a stack of books to
review or discuss that i've been reading
i have been busy writing and uh yeah
writing my own book has
been a distraction to say the least from
reading anything that of anyone else's
imagination
this lightning is not so great for me
turn that up
yeah yeah oh well oh well this is not
going to be uh
hopefully nobody tuned in for the
lighting um have you read seneca yes
many many years ago
i have not read seneca in the last five
years but yeah i think i read
pretty much everything seneca wrote 20
years ago or something yeah
yeah um seneca i mean i'll sir just
all of these all these questions are
worth digressing on i'll come back to
these other questions
uh the interesting thing about seneca is
measuring his
influence on politics in different
periods of time
so i have several books on machiavelli
here
i can physically whip out these books we
have a bookshelf on wheels which is
great by the way i totally recommend
switching to having a bookshelf on rails
but you know um the extent to which
somebody like machiavelli
is actually reacting to
and criticizing seneca that's an
interesting example of the kind of
influence
uh seneca had even if even if negative
but yeah at some periods of time
seneca was a major influential author
and in some periods of time in some
cultures totally ignored
i will always remember this um
i had one professor and i've emailed him
i've emailed him like within this year i
think
last year and a half i had one professor
and we were we were friends back at the
university of toronto
uh you know he was friends with me
enough to talk to me about his divorce
and other
struggles in his life they're not you
know he i was a teenager and he was a
professor but still it was an unusual
sort of friendship
and he recognized immediately that i was
very different from the other students
and uh also uh he was desperately lonely
because he hated all the other
professors he was a deeply flawed
character but in his way that god was a
real
intellectual and i actually tore down a
poster
to take it to him and show him because
there was this bizarre
cult that was recruiting people to
attend one of their lectures
and the poster said learn the philosophy
of
happiness and had this incredibly simple
drawing of a sun the sun shining this
guy with a happy face drawn on it
there's a you know it's a
little kid with draw it's a circle with
rays of lights the shining sun
smiling at you study the philosophy of
seneca
and i thought this too it showed me he
knew he really showed that you know he
wasn't intellectually he could show that
some president
huh what was the point he also he he
really laughed out loud
seneca is bleak i mean seneca is
you know you you feel like your teeth
are whiter you feel like the you know
i feel like the uh the plaque has been
stripped off your your
teeth uh reading seneca you're looking
at the the bleakest and most disturbing
aspects of human nature unlike
discussing the history of canadian
genocide and what we're going to do now
about it all right so
as well seeing as i'm digressing from a
digression
a question from creative nothing quote
why do you strive to make the world a
better place and think about the future
even if the universe will die at the end
does it imply that helping people right
now is still terrorism
uh you know this kind of question we
were discussing this the other day
during a walk there is a very strange
kind of
egoism at the root of this question
right so
if somebody said to you why build a
mansion
if it's gonna cease to exist after a
hundred years what's the point
of building a mansion what's the point
of building the pyramids
if they're only going to stand for 5 000
years or maybe 10 000 years
you know so implicitly you seem to be
comparing yourself to the biblical
judeo-christian god
and thinking that your creations count
for nothing if they don't last for
a million years or a billion years like
oh yes
well vanity of vanities to build the
pyramids and only have them change the
world for
say ten thousand years then why would
you build a house
just to live in it yourself for say 50
years knowing that it will be demolished
after you die
and some other house built in this place
perhaps an apartment vanity of vanities
that you should do something
so evanescent and impermanent yes
imagine
if i publish this book now that i'm
putting all this time and effort to do
and it
only influences people for the next 100
years
just do the new lovely people in the
audience and other youtubers who listen
to me that ods and so on these other
guys yeah if if the only
influence i should have is on my own
daughter
and you know my you would circle with my
closest fans and friends and what have
you
if my own daughter and my own
grandchildren and so on for the next
hundred years
how pitiable as opposed to creating
monuments
not even monuments in stone monuments
and stone don't last that long
trust me take a look at the rate of
erosion in cambodia
under that cambodian rain you can you
can write something in stone and if it's
out in the rain it's not going to last
that long
you know so i mean the question was just
restate the exact word of the question
why do you strive to make the world a
better place and think about the future
even if the universe will will die in
the end
so you see the difference between you
and i uh dear viewer
is that i do not think of a project
i do not think of my ambitions as being
beholden to the universe this concept of
the universe is dangerously close to the
judeo-christian god it is not
in the service of the universe that i
write my book
or paint my painting or recite my poetry
or build my pyramid
out of bricks perhaps merely bricks of
clay
bricks of clay that one day will
dissolve in the tropical rain you know
and wash away
bricks of clay that may be washed away
with climate change thousands of years
now
yes you know in fact i don't do this
for the universe i do this
for myself and relative to
my mere span of say 100 years i mean
isn't 100 years of
let's say i'm vegan i'm vegan i don't
drink alcohol i don't smoke cigarettes
i could have a solid century on this
planet guys you know me publishing this
book
me building an object out of bricks
building a house or whatever that may be
very meaningful
within this period of time and for a
couple centuries thereafter
um and that's issue so i don't i don't
know you with the the person who
sent in this question like i don't i
don't know what kind of history you read
or something
but any given any given empire any given
great accomplishment in the history of
many
it's normally about 300 years the
maximum extent
in 300 years sometimes 400 years
you know some people will write back and
say oh well what about china
what about india well if you say that
you really haven't studied the history
of china india
because the the periods of you know
continuity within the thousands of years
you're talking about are brief and
the whole language changes from one
period to another a lot of people don't
want to admit that
i'm sorry not to digress on chinese
history too much but uh look at the
poetry of the tang
dynasty tand the tang dynasty um
it's not written in the same language
that they speak today and call chinese
and that's because
what we call chinese today is beijing
hua it's a dialect of modern beijing
the language that that tang dynasty
poetry is written in is actually closer
to hakkien
h-o-k-k-i-e-n totally different language
totally from this
so you know you can pretend it's all
china all the time
but the differences between the
different regions that ruled china
are much greater than the differences
between italy and france
italy and france are almost the same
language in the same culture compared to
hockey and chinese as opposed to beijing
chinese no
i mean how long can anything last
300 years is a pretty good run guys you
know
you know what i mean like if you can if
you can change the world or accomplish
something over a period of three years
and then beyond that you know there's
also the question of meaningfulness and
and meaninglessness um we can pretend
that shakespeare is just as meaningful
today as he was in his own time no he's
not
you know don't don't get yourself you
know shakespeare is barely
comprehensible to anyone today
you know politically philosophically
religiously it's a lot of religious
mystery
pardon me there's a lot of religious
imagery in hamlet
that people don't don't uh don't pick up
on
you know what do you think he's talking
about when you say about queen mab
what do you mean he's talking about when
he says what's old is new again you know
there's stuff going on in hamlet it was
written for real reasons that
we can pretend oh yes we all sit around
and appreciate this
but no you know the 300 years is a
pretty good run
so yeah it's fine but it seems to me
your question quite explicitly
is phrased with the assumption that the
universe
has an objective reality and standard
that we have to live up to and measure
our own accomplishments next to for for
whatever reason
you know you're asking what's the point
of making the world a better place
and i'm instead beginning with a human
scale
and talking about human life you know i
don't think anyone
who lived through the rise and fall of
communism in cambodia
would say oh well uh when you think
about it
whether uh cambodia is ruled by a
communist dictatorship or has a
democracy uh when you consider things
you know from the perspective
of the last 10 billion years and the
next
10 billion years uh you know
when you when you consider that
eventually everything in the universe is
going to disintegrate
what what difference would it make to
you know struggle to achieve democracy
and freedom of speech in cambodia a
question that can still be asked today
year 2021 in very different
circumstances you know the period of the
khmer rouge of
extreme communism and cambodia is a
really stark
moral challenge in so many ways so look
it's a i'm not criticizing you i know
you asked this question
with with the best of intentions um
but maybe this question illustrates the
difference between cosmological nihilism
and what i call historical nihilism my
form of nihilism is all about
learning from history including the
meaninglessness of history and tearing
apart
the mythology that we think of as
history but isn't really history and so
um you know it's partly a critique of
history and a rejection of the
ideologies that we express through
history and that we pretend have
inherent meaning and history and so on
rejecting the way marxists think about
history but
in theory rejecting what conservatives
think about history i don't know how
many trump supporters
who really fix their ideology on study
of history but you know so
this this though begins with and ends
with a sense of human scale
whereas i know the cosmological
nihilists they think much more in this
sense of oh well you know
think about radiocarbon dating think
about 50 000 years i think about 5
million years
and all your aspirations well what's
what's the conclusion of that way of
thinking is your point that
when you look at the world from a
perspective of a billion years
that the question of whether or not you
spend your own life just sitting on the
couch playing super mario 64 again and
again
as opposed to you know being involved
with some
you know grand sense of purpose are you
saying that that's trivial well that
well
you know so this is uh this is a line of
thinking i i don't uh particularly
guys great to have you here we have 32
people in the audience if we could have
32 thumbs up
it will help other people um discover
the live stream that's really the
advantage
of is the more people will join us and
ask uh questions as it's ongoing
so if you want to change your mind later
i'm sorry i keep saying this but it's
true
if you give a thumbs up now it's not
like voting for president you can't
change your vote later when you when you
vote for president united states or
prime minister of england you can later
undo your thumbs up
or you can change to a thumbs down so
don't worry about it
but sure we'll get some get some more
people in the audience if we get a
thumbs up
all right so i'm just reading through
some of your um
oh okay here's a question do you like
the qing dynasty flag only for its looks
so someone has finally mentioned that's
the first person to ask about the flag
in the background
uh or do you have any other meaningful
reason for having displayed
well you know uh we're an anti-communist
household here you know i grew up
with communist parents and now as an
adult
i'm i'm really a very active
anti-communist
now there aren't a lot of positive
symbols you can display
to express your anti-communism in a
meaningful
sense um you know i'm not going to have
a communist flag with an x through it or
something you know i'm not
you know you're gonna have the no
smoking sign imposed on the russian
communist flag or something that
wouldn't appeal to me
and you know also let's just keep it all
the way real we had some other comments
about vietnam
i'm happy to talk about the history of
vietnam war ii here you know
of course many of the forces that have
opposed
uh communism you know uh
historically are also completely
ethically deplorable i mean
well terrible people fight against
communism i knew a guy who fought
literally fought against communism in
colombia you know
as a very tough situation it's like well
you have this kind of totally
corrupt horrible anti-communist
government and
the other side you have these totally
corrupt horrible cocaine dealing
uh communist gorillas in the jungle and
he literally was
you know uh it's very sorry i'm saying
this if it's a big deal if you know
anyone from colombia
pretty much any able-bodied man has
experience in this kind of situation
i'm exaggerating but a large percentage
of men there have done some time in the
military this kind of thing
but he he was out patrolling uh the
jungle
i mean he was very disturbed by seeing
things like uh chopped up human body
parts uh floating down the river which
the communists did in order to
intimidate the other side to show hey we
killed
some more people and we're floating
floating their remains down the river
doing bits and pieces
chop them up with a machete and this
kind of thing
that's you know it's a real war war
ain't changed
you know i mean the reality of combat
and all that stuff hasn't changed
but you know i would not display
the flag of the anti-communist parties
in cambodia
sorry pardon me in colombia neither one
i mean they're both terrible i'm sorry
that's a good example too
i'm not gonna have an anti-communist
flag relating to the anti-communist
forces in colombia
who have their own moral shortcomings
shall we say
you know it's very hard to have
something that shows i mean in this case
it's really saying look i'm someone who
cares about china and chinese politics i
got this soap bottle out of the way i
guess
there you go that's the flag we're
talking about you know i'm someone who
really cares about
chinese politics chinese history the
chinese language is now apparently
going to remain my language scholarship
until i'm an old man
and i'm on the anti-communist side you
know so it's it's an attempt to bring
together
you know all those meetings and you know
as symbols go
um so look i'll say a little bit more
about that though
you know we have this research project
that's ongoing
about um about the qing dynasty in part
about
uh xinjiang and western china
where china meets central asia places
like uzbekistan
and a lot of that has to deal with
reinterpreting qing dynasty history
because one of the myths about the
history of china was that the qing
dynasty was the weakest
dynasty militarily and the opposite is
true
so the qing dynasty is a much
misunderstood period in large part
because of
uh communist propaganda so that's also
interesting there's a kind of a bit of
an
intellectual challenge in reclaiming and
reinterpreting and
understanding a new what happened with
the chain the other the other myth again
this
is this is absolutely part of commerce
propaganda about how china became
communist and emergency majority
the other myth is that the qing sold out
china
to european empires and european
colonists and so on
but the qing dynasty that is the period
in which china expanded it expanded more
than any other period in its history
and that included the conquest of um
of xinjiang what's now xinjiang in
western china by the way if you don't
know
tiana anyway xinjiang
um it means like a new borderland
very literally new border you know and
that reflects that in the qing dynasty
this is this uh
this expansion
so uh someone's asking if i was sorry
i'm
i'm happy i'm looking but look guys i i
opened this by boldly saying we're going
to talk about genocide in canada
so we'll try to get back to that someone
has to completely
oh okay so here's here's an on topic
question um do you think it's possible
for indigenous cultures to thrive across
canada the u.s when the indigenous
population in both countries and so
is so low okay so look so james
you know i i try to keep it all the way
real
but you know what i'm saying what
what do you mean by indigenous culture
right now sorry i'm not saying this to
attack you i'm not saying this to offend
you
i'm just saying let's let's really think
through what it is we're saying what
does it mean here
um if you go up to james bay in canada
i can't put up graphics here because
it's a live stream but look at
a map of canada hudson bay is this giant
bay you can't miss it this huge
huge vacuity in the middle of the
canadian shield um and then there's this
smaller bay within it called james bay
if you go up to james bay who are the
cree
what is their culture now one reason to
mention james bayh this is one of the
last
areas where people speak the kree
language where the language isn't
totally extinct what kind of people
speak the creed language
well on this side they're catholic
and they're active catholic mansionaries
and their main method
of learning and practicing the language
is by memorizing and singing
songs from the church in cree songs
about how great jesus is
and they're like almost at a state of
war with
the kree people over on this side who
are protestant and whose main use
of the language is like i'm not
exaggerating
for many of them the only book they have
ever seen published in their own
language is the bible
right a bible and church songs and stuff
and you have
today a modern cree culture that is
completely a product
of centuries of employing them as
mercenaries
employing them as fur hunters and
trappers for the hudson bay company for
the corporation that was up
there and the you know hybridity that
resulted from centuries of
of catholic catholic and protestant
missionary activity them competing with
each other
and um you know you can't forget to a
significant extent
they were themselves positively
motivated
um appropriators of like they weren't
just forcibly assimilated they often
reached out for
and wanted to assimilate those aspects
of european culture i mean
whenever you look into the history of
any particular korea or ojibwe group
often part of their history was the
efforts they were making to go and
recruit
christian missionaries to come and live
with them or really they were sending
people out
sometimes by by snowshoe you know like
walking and
using you know dog dog pulled sleds to
say oh
we want to have you know a christian
missionary come live in our town
so you know this and and again there's
uh there's this kind of survival bias
here
those are the those were
disproportionately the groups that
survived colonialism were the ones that
had that kind of active attitude of
embracing and assimilating
and producing a new hybrid culture so
look
you know um another another indication
if you watch any of the documentary
showing the reality of first nations
culture today
one of the things that will strike you
is that a lot of them wear cowboy hats
and listen to country music that's
kind of been out of style for 30 years
or even 50 years
you know i think whoa okay now not all
first nations people some first nations
people listen to rap music
and the ones you meet in the big city
more likely listen to hip-hop music
but you look at that you see this
continuing pattern which goes back over
centuries
where very often their engagement with
um european colonial civilization
is that they're they're constantly
catching up with
you know that that civilization and so
what you're often looking at and dealing
with are attitudes that white people
themselves had
50 years ago now that includes extremely
conservative christianity
already alluded to like this is not
woke left-wing 21st century church
they're preserving a kind of missionary
christianity that existed 50 years ago
100 years ago
out in the back woods you know
which is frighteningly conservative you
know they very often if you talk to
these people and live around them they
very often are frighteningly
racist themselves there was a chief
a tribal chief who ended up getting in
trouble and people were talking about
stripping him of his medals of honor
he'd been given some honorary
decorations
by the government of canada because he
made some statements in support of
adolf hitler and he made some statements
about kind of anti-semitism and racism
he displayed you know he was himself a
member of an oppressed people
that doesn't mean you don't have
oppressive attitudes towards others you
know
so you know
if you ask questions do you think it's
possible for indigenous
cultures to thrive across canada right
we really have to start with the
question of what is
culture right now by contrast so i'm
partly
answering your question i'm partly
refusing to answer your question
what about languages that's the real
question that's the real answer
right part of what i say is don't give
me this culture you know
don't don't talk to me about culture
these people
do not want to live in a museum
dedicated to their own ancient history
you can do the archaeology you can put
together a great museum exhibit that
shows them
hey this is how your people lived 300
years ago and this is how they live 500
years ago and you know you used to
hunt bears and used to eat beaver and
and here are the tools you used and
here's you know
you know they had almost no metal it's
there's a myth that they had no metal at
all metal was very scarce for them
before european trade but they did have
some
metal some metal making bone but wait
metal was very scarce so these were the
tools you used this was how you survived
interesting is that even interesting one
day a week
you know the reality of who cree and
ojibwe people are is they listen to
rap music seven days a week they use
facebook seven days a week
that was actually a big joke they always
joked about how addicted they all were
to facebook that this was a difference
between them well yeah really
you know that that you know one of the
distinctive marks of being first nations
account of being this person that you're
always on facebook
you know um okay
the language that's something
objectively real that really exists and
then once you have the language if the
language exists
right then we can start to ask questions
about the production of new culture
in that language right so you know yeah
you could take shakespeare and translate
it into cree and translate into japan
but if you have languages like korean
and joy if as languages they thrive
then you get new possibilities
politically new possibilities in terms
of the creative arts
uh so on and so forth so to give you a
sense of i mean
it's it's all very close to extinction
right now
um i'm just going to give you an example
so there is a tv show called wapos bay
and this is one of the only
examples you want so i don't know if
it's also available with english dubbing
but the main version of that show the
characters are all speaking
cree um so you know there are there are
very very few examples like this
but that's that to me is really the
question i mean
convert okay so i could i could go on
but you know
if you're talking about spain spain and
europe not mexico
spain any attempt to reify
spanish culture will destroy spanish
culture if the government of spain
starts saying which would
in some ways be correct and reasonable
enough that spanish culture is
disappearing because people in spain
today
are importing american culture and
french culture and german culture
and chinese and japanese culture a lot
of people in spain watch japanese
cartoons
they may correctly say oh spanish
culture is disappearing
but the solution is always to produce a
new culture it's always to have
something
it's not to say hey everybody in spain
let's force you back into the museum
let's all live in a museum devoted to
the glory of what's think
of what spain was 500 years ago or a
thousand years ago or what spain means
in some
fixed sense i'm not just saying that
won't work that it will fail it can
succeed
but i'm saying it's destructive so this
idea of
reifying culture and then carrying out
government policy or educational policy
to perpetuate that culture that fixed
idea
of what the culture is ought to be what
the culture should be
it will always be destructive as opposed
to being
creative so really brief digression
something less
sensationalistic because it's not linked
to genocide i remember what rap music
was
i remember what rap music used to be
sometimes i may lament
that in the year 2021 rap music is not
what i would like it to be but i can't
respond to that by trying to force
people into a museum
of what rap music used to be or what i
what i feel it ought to be taking that
ideal
as something for other people to to live
up to okay a great question is that
almond milk no this is a
protein powder it's vegan
all right sorry so we have another paid
comment from the same uh
the same commentator
okay so he says quote
thank you for the answer about the
difference between cosmological nihilism
and historical nihilism and let me ask
you
is helping people utilitarian or not in
the conscious of the previously so great
thanks for thanks for the donation
thanks for following up
and i i will readily confess i failed to
address the utilitarian answer of your
question because i had so much to say
about
all the other answers
so you know to simplify the equation
let's say we're talking about just one
person
helping just one other person now
obviously you can scale this up to be a
teacher
helping a classroom of 30 students
a prison warden trying to help 500
people in that prison
but just to answer your question let's
talk about one person
trying to help one person okay
so i'm sober let's say i have a friend
who is some
combination of an alcoholic and a drug
addict
and i'm trying to help them
okay is it utilitarian or not
so let's say i help them and help them
and help them for a while
and then you know what they come to the
profound realization that they just like
to get high
there's no utilitarian outcome right
well i say
that was a complete waste of my time no
because it's about me
it's about what kind of person i want to
become right
and there is this inescapable
sense in which you know you make music
for an audience yes you know of course
you do
of course i mean this is the difference
between you know writing a book you
intend to publish and writing your own
diary
you write a book for an audience you
make a painting for an audience you
engage in political activism for an
audience we have the question about
standing for election
i may put myself forward an election and
compete in an election i cannot possibly
win
it is four nights it is for a public it
is for people
it is to help people right
but no ultimately it can't be
utilitarian
right it can't be measured in terms of
its outcomes
and the outcomes may be authentically
paradoxical right the outcomes may be
the opposite of what you personally
desire
or they may be absolutely nothing at all
so
i know this guy called eisel mazzard
he went to do humanitarian work in
cambodia
do you think i helped even one person in
you know really now i admit actually if
i get it
yeah i probably could give you some
examples of people to be honest
but but let's be cynical here for the
sake of the argument let's say i went to
cambodia
i did this combination of research and
humanitarian work and everything right
and let's say not even one person
benefited from it and
i i didn't do drug rehab what i was
doing well some of it actually was
related to drug addiction
but most of what i did wasn't helping
drug addicts okay now that i think about
it a little bit it was
but you know um but just to have
something that's easy for everyone to
visualize if i had gone to cambodia to
help drug addicts
one-on-one becomes over what if the
failure rate was 100
you know okay so you've got to ask about
the meaningfulness of it and of what
you're doing
right ultimately this is about the kind
of person
i'm going to become this this comes back
to my much delayed topic talking about
consequences of of the genocide at
canada why is it
that there are no white people who are
in a position to play a leadership role
in actually solving these problems or
solving these issues
it's because they don't have that prior
experience of trying
and failing you know you learn a lot
from failure you learn more from failure
than you do from success most of the
time
you know so look i'm just going to
restate the question
let me ask you is helping people
utilitarian or not
in the context of the previous question
so my answer is in effect
if it is utilitarian then it's tragic
right it's ineluctably and inescapable
inescapably
tragic to be doing these things only for
those
utilitarian outcomes you have to be able
to go into these things with a kind of
radical detachment um
a kind of studious recklessness about
some of those outcomes
where you know it's like someone sitting
down to paint who says well i have
something that's really worth painting
i'm going to write this book because i
have a story that's
really worth telling and if nobody alive
today can appreciate it if there's no
audience for it you know there's
something
really important in this story i have to
tell this this may have to be
you know now of course you may be insane
i think
maybe plenty of painters you may be
deluded you may
but you know um to undertake that kind
of action
place if you are doing it in a
utilitarian way
um it's it's it's inelectably
you know tragic so guys right now this
is this is 2021.
do i have a single person in the
audience who got involved with
syria i'm not saying
is there one person here in the last
five years has gotten involved
with humanitarian crisis in syria so we
have ukraine you know
mentioned okay do we have one person in
the audience who's gotten involved with
politics of humanitarian crisis related
to helping the ukrainian people
this is we know we're not running out of
examples myanmar myanmar is happening
right now you know now if you were to
pose that problem
in terms of utilitarian outcome what
difference can you possibly make
in myanmar like i think from a
utilitarian perspective it's going to be
tragic
but like right now any five of us any
ten of us if we put our human mind
together in that hat
we can make a big difference we can do
something that really matters and that's
really meaningful
for us in our lives and like for your
brothers and sisters and for my daughter
and for my grandchildren i can do
something that's meaningful to me
and everyone is connected to me that's
meaningful to my youtube followers i can
do something that makes a meaningful
difference on that scale
for the next five years for the next 10
years maybe for the next 100 years
we could do something that really
impacts you know the discourse on on
myanmar
right but but what if you want to
measure it
in terms of like how many lives you save
or something
or or actually changing the government
in
in you know or changing the constitution
like getting a you know a palpable legal
change
this starts to become very tragic indeed
so yeah um
you know it's it's hard to be honest
with yourself you know one way or the
other about that
a lot of a lot of what i recommended
people do
you know in relation to vegan activism
was just virtue for the sake of being
virtuous
i said well you can do this and it's not
going to have any of these any of these
outcomes you're fantasizing about
um so you know you
you have to be very very honest with
yourself with what your expectations are
and what is saying you are going to be
heartbroken or disgusted with yourself
if you if you for example take someone
into your home
let's say you take someone off the
street and take them into your home and
you're coaching them and helping them to
try to get them off
drugs and alcohol stop them being so
they're mixed alcohol
and you know what ultimately they're
just interested in taking your charity
and taking your support and getting as
high as possible
you know um
all right so uh uh we will get back to
oh and i see you're here oliver
okay so we got a lot of intelligent uh
comments coming in
nice to hear from you mandy nice to hear
from you clint nice to hear from you
brandon
um a question from frida so we're going
to get into
canadian genocide lately here frida says
and friday i saw your earlier comment
even though i didn't read it
frida says do you think genocide and
eugenics were done in canada because of
racism question mark
she says quote that she thinks white
europeans
have a huge problem with someone's skin
being darker and she sees this as
as the main problem um
you know frida i was just reading appian
the historian of of ancient rome and i
pointed out to melissa that that
concerns a period of time
where you're looking at dark-skinned
people enslaving
lighter-skinned people you know this is
really white and blonde and red-haired
europeans
becoming the slaves of relatively
swarthy
southern italians um i know from today's
perspective they're all
they're all white people you can look at
the history of the various
muslim empires be they arab
uh turkish or persian and you're
you're looking at a lot of white slavery
and there's also history of white people
being enslaved in africa
which is rarely mentioned but you know
again
even though they're small numbers um
white slaves were very valuable in
africa and um
i remember reading in detail on account
of an african
slave trading vessel i suppose or a
slave raiding vessel
that went to the coast of ireland and
enslaved a bunch of irish people to take
them away and sell silence
and actually another think of it um i've
mentioned voltaire
quite a bit voltaire he does kind of
primarily first
and foremost express his pity for the
the black slaves the enslaved africans
um you know and appropriately not
because that was the mass phenomenon of
the time but he includes um
pitiable descriptions of white slavery
of white people
uh being enslaved which certainly does
also include
uh sex slavery you know um so you know
slavery
went in all directions now
you know
why was
so that all right sorry there are a
couple different dimensions
so frida um
if you google the national portrait
gallery in england
so they have a big website you can look
at portraits
of what our indigenous people looked
like when europeans
arrived so when indigenous people had
not
intermarried with europeans yet okay
our indigenous people especially on the
east coast looked
white okay they had white skin
and you know um obviously i'm not
referring to the inuit here
the idea that they had red skin that
they were referred to as red people
actually originated from
some ceremonial dances where they had
red paint
on them they didn't people did not have
the delusion that they were red in color
but if you look up you know paintings of
what the iroquois and
someone looked like back then now
everyone knows what they look like today
they don't get a lot of sun today and
they are now most of them are married
with europeans
so no i mean i'm i'm challenging you
here frida i do not think that canada's
genocidal
history has a cause and effect
relationship with
brownness and i do not think
you know europe's internal history
can be explained in terms of trying to
eradicate
brownness the relationship between
england and greece
cannot be explained in terms of
brownness versus whiteness the
relationship between
germany and italy cannot be explained in
terms of brown as well you know the
status of spain
as opposed to romania today you know
is there more racism against spaniards
or eastern europeans like
romanians and so on so i i do understand
i mean it's it's kind of a
facile way of looking at the history as
if the purpose of colonialism or the
purpose of these genocidal
policies was to eliminate a skin color
you know um and it's not i mean i think
we'll get into
what the purpose of that of that
colonialism genocide
was um uh you know just to give a really
brief
allusion to it you know uh
so a phrase that's said here in this
household every time we
read a lot about history communism is
that part of the tragedy of communism
is that once they conquer you once the
revolution is over you can never be
communist enough
this is even true communist dissidents
and so on today
you know these people in portland oregon
and
seattle and so on it's like oh well the
people who joined that they keep
they keep kind of persecuting their own
followers because nobody can ever be
communist enough is this standard you
can't live up to
um part of the problem with the british
empire
was that nobody could ever be british
enough you know they kept offering to
the native people
like oh well if you just join our army
and fight for us
then you'll be one of us and we'll
reward you oh if you convert to
christianity
you'll be one of us and we'll reward you
if you learn to read and write
our language you'll be one of us and
we'll reward you
and the reality was they they could
never be british enough
that really the objective of the british
empire from
day one was genocide there was no
interest ever in for example having
native people represented in parliament
and if the objective had been anything
other than genocide that's exactly what
you'd have that's exactly what there
would be
there would be seats in parliament for
there'd be a representation where they
would be proud
to represent the native people
government would exist for the native
people
in part or primarily or in whole and
that would be part of the definition of
canadianism
and instead from the first you you had
an agenda to to exterminate them
however you know um
the the distinction between you know the
british
and the the people they were
exterminating was not extinction of
black versus white
and it wasn't even a kind of distinction
between white versus brown
and you know again i've known plenty of
those people face to face it's very
subtle the difference in facial features
to give an example of the iroquois
the difference between an iroquois
person and an italian person
really you know really if you haven't
lived around them it's very
hard to see the subtle signs that
someone is is
irrequired and you know there are plenty
of kore people even
even getting into the you know eastern
part of the united states there are
plenty of indigenous people there
and you know again i go back and look at
the paintings that were made of them
before intermarriage
became a factor or you can look at there
are also people who have their dna
testing done and so on
it's no i do not think that's an
explanation i think that's something
that's
in the truest sense the word facile it's
easy to to attribute kind of cause and
effect
a relationship with that but really
that's sure it's part of the context
for the unfolding of that genocidal
campaign but i can put you this way
hypothetically if all of our indigenous
people
had been as white-skinned as those
people on the east coast they first
encountered because the genocide went
from east to west in case you didn't
know
do you think they would have been
treated any better i mean they were even
within the indigenous people were the
brown skin
people treated worse than the white skin
people so no
i mean it's uh it's not the case that
this
was racism that was incidentally
genocidal
this was genocide that was incidentally
racist
you know it was genocide was really the
primary purpose of the british empire
project on this continent
okay sir so i'm skipping ahead through
some of these comments here
ah yes well melissa just made a video
talking about disability as a political
identity
and lilac cloud writes in to ask quote
what do you think about the term
neurodivergent
and its use among leftist circles
uh quote it seems to me that they're
downplaying certain serious disabilities
well lila cloud among the most heavily
censored videos on my channel
are the ones about uh autism
and asperger's so i encourage you to
[Music]
search the i'll give you the link here
i've mentioned this before
there is a searchable archive of my past
videos and if you go and search this for
words like autism and asperger's you'll
be able to find the videos i made on
that if you search within youtube
you'll never find them because they're
really really
shadow banned shadow banning is real um
you know wishful thinking is one of the
most
fundamental aspects of human nature
and it's dangerous and it's malignant
and it's destructive and it leads to
mass murder itself
leads to terrible things so you know do
i think it's a problem
yes do i think it's serious yes are
individual people's lives destroyed by
it
yes we have a long history of
specifically
so we in the english-speaking world
there is a long history of
misrepresenting
autism as a quote-unquote superpower
leaning heavily originally on the comic
book the x-men
um and of trying to represent
people who have autism and asperger's as
if
this you know as if as if this were the
next step in human evolution in the same
way that the comic book characters the
x-men
represented the next step for humanity
um so if you don't know the comic books
in the movies of the x-men
i'm sorry but i'm not gonna i'm not
gonna get into x-men lore
for this video but yeah and i can see
that type of comic book does have huge
cultural influence and so on so yeah um
all right so i think well i think we'll
think we'll wrap up that comment on that
but yeah it's it's a huge issue
and i have made uh videos talking about
it it destroys people's lives
on an individual scale and it has
destructive effects
um on a massive cultural scale also
oh james todd here's what i can do
quickly james thought asks thanks for
answering my previous questions here's
another one
which political parties have you voted
for in canada throughout your life
so a long long time on the channel a
long time ago on the channel i should
say
i did mention my personal history with
the green party
so i got involved with the green party
when i
was 19 or 20 or 21 around there when i
was a young young man and still a
university student maybe it was even 18
or i don't i don't remember
i'd have to look it up but when i was
young man i got involved with the green
party
and you know i'll just say this
a lot of you are used to dealing with
human stupidity
through facebook comments through
instagram dms
through digital media when you deal with
human stupidity face to face
it's different you know i really got to
see
how people think about and talk about
politics i
within the green part i'm just terrible
terrible political party terrible people
you know
um i mean i met i met one girl who was
quite literally a neo-nazi
who was inside the the green party she
was trying to recruit people and
it was a classical it was like a
pro-adolph hitler neo-nazi
some people use the term neo-nazi and
they just mean no no they voted for
donald trump or something
no no no no no no um so you know there
were
there were communists inside the green
party of canada
there were neo-nazis inside the green
party again i just remember that one
she was there with a boyfriend at least
i mean maybe she was the only one
there there were more than zero and you
got you got to see
um the stupidity and the danger of all
that
and you got to see how people think and
how they say these things
there was a lot for me to learn from
that face-to-face real life experience
even though it's an absolutely terrible
political party when i was here in
victoria
someone is now almost 10 years ago or
something so my daughter is now eight
years old
so it's about seven years ago yeah some
of that
yeah um i did get involved
briefly with the uh
with the new democrat party the most
left-wing of the mainstream parties
because they answered some email from me
and they they took some
pro i was having political problems at
the university and i felt like well if
they give me a sincere response on this
like if if the political party has done
something for me i'll give them a chance
whew i mean you know at that time too i
already knew i i
despised all three of the mainstream
political parties but it's like well
you know this was my elected
representative when i wrote to them and
asked them to do something for me
because i have this conflict of
university they did take the time to get
back to me and
do some research and see what parliament
could and couldn't do
and i benefited from that so i i gave
them the benefit out i went i went to
and participated in some
election-related events
i mean you know if you if you have any
optimism about the electoral process in
canada you get to go
and see that reality and you get to be
disappeased of your
of your optimism so no i mean the short
answer is there is no
political party in canada i could vote
for i don't that year the year that i
got involved with the ndp with the
leftover i did not vote for them
i'm just being honest to you like i went
i read their literature i participated
in some of these events you know the the
campaign related stuff
uh i even did canvassing for them uh
with a female friend at the time who i
haven't spoken to in years um you know
uh
but no i didn't vote for them you know
and seeing it up close i remember asking
them like i remember so they had they
had a bunch of pamphlets on specific
issues
so that when you were going door-to-door
like if somebody asked about israel
you give them the pamphlet on israel and
i remember asking them because like the
pamphlet on israel was like
100 perfect hypocrisy
it's like has anyone ever told you that
it's day and it's night at the same time
ladies ladies have you ever been at the
bar and a guy's hitting on you say
aren't you married
and he says yes and no at the same time
well
you know how do you define married i
mean how
how do you define supporting the
palestinians how
you know i mean this was the most
hypocritical
baffle gap imaginable i remember saying
they're retiring the guy he was like
he's the leader of like the branch of
the parties the leader of the writing
association the local branch
so you know like you realize like you
realize that this is like trying to sell
people hot ice
like this is saying completely
contradictory and big thing
so you know uh that that brief
involvement with canadian party politics
you know
refreshed my familiarity with how awful
it is but that's
that's about all i can say about that um
[Music]
okay so we get a question that i'm going
to treat as sincere
we will come back to we'll come back to
canadian genocide by the way guys 45
people in the audience
if you got a second hit the thumbs up
button if you change your mind later you
can change
the thumbs down but it does help people
discover the stream and participate in
this conversation
while it's still ongoing if you give i'm
going to treat this as a sincere
question
clint writes in to ask uh did you have
those models consent
before using their pictures in your
video so i'm going to choose to treat
this as a legitimate question and not as
as trolling
which is a which is a choice so let me
just think lin
i do not know if you are american or
british
or canadian but you know
one of the most fundamental aspects of
freedom of speech
is that i do not need donald trump's
consent
to use a photograph of him in
criticizing him
i do not need the consent of george
lucas
i do not need the consent of the disney
corporation
to use clips of the star wars tv show or
the star wars movie
in offering my criticism of it and i
have by the way it's
not i wonder if anyone in this audience
became a subscriber
because they um uh you know because they
they discovered my youtube videos
criticizing star wars but i have i've
criticized star wars
as a series of movies and as a
literature and kind of in its political
and cultural significance
okay i do not need permission from a
comic book company like marvel comics or
dc comics
to use images of of batman now that
freedom was very hard fought for in the
united states america the freedom to
even engage in lampoon uh the freedom to
engage in caricature
the freedom to engage in like
criticizing disney corporation
by making a cartoon that shows mickey
mouse in an evil and unflattering light
in the past disney would actually sue
people for that kind of thing
and it came to be established that no if
you don't have the right to use someone
else's image
if you don't have the right to quote
somebody whether that's a clip of what
they said on the radio where they sit on
on tv then you actually don't have
freedom of speech
at all so yeah some of my videos have
images of
bikini models some of my videos have
politicians you know or whatever you
know the the people i'm criticizing the
people i'm quoting
it is a that is a crucial part and
that's you know that's part of
being a youtuber it's part of being an
author it's it's part of being a
creative person in 21st century
and really it's been an important part
of being a creative person in every
century
since the original john wilkes so let's
really get deep on this where does this
come from
john wilkes is not john wilkes booth
you guys can tell i didn't have to
google this when you do a live stream
people
people can tell what you know off the
top of your head and what it is you have
to dig around and check wikipedia for
so there was a historical figure named
john wilkes and he was the turning point
in the history of england
where the right to quote people in
parliament was established so
a lot of you don't know this i think
this is worth just taking a moment to
dilate on historically parliament
the actual meaning of the word was a
secret war
party it was to get together to parlay
so we still said p-a-r-l-e-y or parley
um to have a meeting of you know
aristocrats
commanders for the army bring their
horses together and talk about strategy
before going on the field
and the idea was you had a parley for
the man who provided the horses
and the armor and the money to go to war
that it was the supporters of the king
the aristocrats having their own
parliament this is the idea of the
prominent
and built into that it's just pointing
out this is completely different from
the origin of democracy in ancient
greece
or ancient rome this has nothing to do
with the athenian penins
this has nothing to do with rome's
system of senators and
committee uh committees no this was a
secret gathering of aristocrats and the
idea was that none of the aristocrats
participating would ever tell someone
that was done in secrecy it was done
privately and it was a crime
and you could be punished and put in
prison or even killed
for say writing a book that quotes what
happens in parliament
so again we're going real deep in the
answer this way
um there was a time when if you're
really into political science or
political philosophy books that are
written about
politics have titles like um
the meeting of the turtles in the pond
it'll have some
totally cartoonish title like this and
it will say
one day you know the turtles in the pond
decided that they were not very
happy with their king uh old king turtle
you know and it creates a fictional
like framework to quote or paraphrase
a dispute that happened in parliament
it's bizarre because it was illegal
to actually quote or actually that that
was actually our british empire
tradition so and with john wilkes
that was the political struggle that
instead established your right to
know just even to know what people say
in poland and to quote it and to publish
it
so yeah that is actually the beginning
of the turning point in our history and
it is i mean that's a turn point in the
english-speaking world in england and
america and everything else
um i think there's a really genuine
question of
how freedom of speech would have evolved
in a different way and the freedom to
quote people
and use their photographs if instead of
england conquering
the world if instead rome had gone like
i don't mean ancient rome i mean like
catholic medieval realm if italy had
become the most powerful country in
europe
again or remained the most powerful
country in the in the catholic period
if you'd had a kind of roman catholic
cultural continuity
i'm sure the demands for freedom of
speech would have arrived one way or
another
but as you guys know i mean the
celebrated activists for freedom of
speech
that we that we remember today were
really the scientists
in rome was people like uh you know the
controversy over
heliocentrism uh whether or not the
earth goes around the sun and so on
there were these different attempts to
challenge
uh the churches censoring of people but
for for long centuries you know
censorship and silence were seen as
being you know in the public interest
and i think it's significant that in
england this
this happened because hey wait if we
can't actually quote
what people said in parliament and why
they made the decisions they made then
there's a sense in which we don't
you know we don't have we don't have
freedom at all so yeah that's a
really interesting turning point in the
history of england and the history of
the world
okay so someone comments uh quote when
you talk about native languages you
always spot inspire me to learn navajo
but it's not like a 20 year old white
dude can go to the navajo nation and be
like hey i learned
navajo let me help you okay so look this
is a great question
i'm right on topic for this for this
live stream
all right so the navajo were not the
same as the cree
the kri are not the same as the ojibwe
the ojibwe are not the same as the
cambodians the cambodians not the same
as the oceans
something i said to people again and
again when i was in laos
talking about the lao people's
democratic republic a small country that
is just north of cambodia
and just south of yunnan china just east
of thailand
when i was in laos something i said to
other white people again and again is
never forget you chose them
they didn't choose you these people
didn't invite you to come here
these people didn't ask you to help them
these people didn't ask you to learn
their language
you chose them you took this on yourself
you decided you care about the lotion
people
so don't get it up because people
get it up
um well look with the navajo
specifically
what you're saying may be true it may
not be my experience with navajo which
is like
this is that they're they're pretty open
to outsiders actually they're
um i read a whole book that just dealt
with the navajo sense of humor
with the com history and culture of
comedy among the navajo
and okay i won't go into that book and
what i learned about navajo culture
but compared to other first nations
groups they are not
hermits like they are not afraid of
white people
they're not trying to live separate you
know the navajo i mean if on a scale of
one to ten
in terms of being accepting of a helpful
outsider um
i don't think they're i don't think
they're at one extreme or the other of
that
now you know the cree by contrast are
very gregarious
very open very happy to have someone
come in and help from the outside
within canada the big contrast is the
dna uh d-e-n-e danny
um the dna tend to be
very hostile towards outside and of
course this is partly culture it's
partly their
historical experience and if you meet a
dna person who's very welcoming
to you coming again and learning the
damage that's great i'm happy but i'm
just saying broadly speaking
now you know um
the lotion people were much more
welcoming and open
than the cambodian people you know um
but you have to have the humility and
self-discipline this comes back to the
earlier
question about utilitarianism in these
things are you doing this for yourself
like are you look i'm studying chinese i
don't have a single chinese speaking
friend
definitely i don't have a single chinese
being brand in canada you know there's
one guy who's still friends with me in
taiwan
shout out to him showed it to my one
chinese friend from that one
but you know like i i don't even want to
talk
practice language me or speak to me or
you know no it's like there are
untold you know millions or millions of
people
who speak chinese are you going to make
the commitment to learn chinese and
you're expecting the chinese to do
something back for you you're expecting
to go to china and be welcome there or
have a job there have some kind of
social station there saying
are you going to do that with japanese
you know it's a very strange thing to
start off a kind of humanitarian project
thinking this is something i'm going to
do for you
but then really immediately your
attitude is hey wait what what are you
people going to do for me
hey wait a minute you're supposed to
help me or learn navajo or learn
learn this language so you know
um that comes back to that question of
having radical
detachment about the outcomes
of what you undertake politically
socially and and so and so
so look just just to give a quick
comparison here to music
um i think it would be completely
reasonable if someone were to
challenge my view to disagree with me or
saying well look that's crazy
nobody would put in the time to master
playing the keyboard
if they're never gonna have an audience
if nobody's gonna if every record is a
flop
if they could never get a hit song right
i'd say that's right that's why you
shouldn't
learn the keyboard don't learn the
violin don't learn the trumpet don't
keep don't learn the drum you're right
because if you're only doing this
for the one in a million chance that
this is going to be a hit record you
know what i mean if that's what
justifies the hours and the
self-sacrifices
and the transformation then don't do it
you know
now if it can be rewarding for me
to learn the irish language this is a
good example irish is kind of
semi-endangered irish may go books think
that's a
marginal language we don't mean english
with an irish accent the indigenous
language of ireland okay
if it's rewarding for me to learn irish
it's maybe it's rewarding for me to
publish my book if you haven't heard i'm
writing a book
so when i finish this book maybe i want
to pay to have a translate to irish i
want to study it
i want to have an irish edition of this
book
or 10 people going to read it now have
this translated and published in ireland
if that's rewarding for me that's one
thing or if it's just because i
care or maybe i care about the history
of ireland or the current politics of
island or the future of ireland
if it's something i'm passionate about
where i care and i want to do this for
you i want to do this for ireland
okay that's one thing but if you are
going into it like the keyboardist
expecting to have a hit record
if you're expecting ireland usually
you're expecting to be a celebrity in
ireland
because you're a foreigner who learned
the irish
you know you have really mistaken your
own egoism for charity you know you're
telling yourself you're doing something
in a charitable way when it's
self-serving in a way that's that's
deceptive
and ultimately destructive and a lot of
people do that a lot of people do that
with
you know they do that with learning the
thai language or the lotion language or
any any other language so it happens all
right
[Music]
okay another interesting question james
asks
do you ever worry that your intellectual
commitments will be for nothing
because you won't be able to properly
apply what you've learned
i am 100 certain
that i will never be able to apply what
i've learned
james so that's not something i worry
about
that's something that i know and it is
because i'm a citizen of canada
i was born into a country with a bad
education system and that's it
so i know the ocean i know a lot about
history and public laws i studied pali
for many years i know a lot about
buddhism
if i were german i'd have incredible
options and opportunities for the rest
of my career to apply
that knowledge okay i'm canadian so i
never will
i was willing to start again with a
blank sheet of paper working on
korean ojibwe i was wanting to start
again with a blank sheet of paper
working on chinese again i had to start
with like should be learning japanese
which was heartbreaking and
mind-breaking i know how much brain
damage i got
from studying japanese and i was willing
to start again
as a kind of leader in the vegan
movement
right i'm not
worried that i won't be able to apply
the talents i've got to get outcomes i'm
a hundred percent
certain i will never be able to apply
the talents i've got in any of those
fields
and you guys benefit from that because
instead i'm here
taking the time to live stream with you
right now and give you some
encouragement in your life
you know
all right so turn to the newspaper
this has been a very special week in uh
canadian politics this is the week of a
kind of
a lot of aimless white guilt and
hand-wringing
from people who never care about first
nations
canadians and they will go back a few
weeks from now to not caring about first
nations again
there is a vein of pretense that
something is fundamentally going to
change
in response to discover pardon me in
response to the discovery of
215 unmarked graves
secret graves of children it's commonly
being reported as a mass grave
there's 215 separate graves so that's
not a mass grave it's not
it's not a mass grave that's the product
of one massacre at one time
all right let's listen before i get to
this guys i have both read
and i have heard interviews as you know
audio
and video yeah mostly yeah mostly audio
some
some on video from first nations people
who directly
witnessed you know deaths and bodies
being disposed of
and rapes and forced abortions and the
babies
that resulted from the pregnancy being
put in the furnace and disposed of by
the teachers who had
raped the girl and gotten her pregnant
so so infanticide and so on
i have heard this stuff i have read
about it and so on
it's real however the misperception
that's happening here is that if you're
talking about a mass grave that would be
something like the holocaust
where they line up 215 people and kill
them all at the same time
and push them into a grave that's not
what happened here the majority
of these deaths obviously there's still
research to be done
but the estimated 6 000 deaths in total
the majority of them came about through
disease
however they were intentionally and
eugenically exposed
these diseases and again i have read
detailed accounts of that
where for example boys were trapped
intentionally
by the teachers put in a room with the
windows nailed shut
um uh with i'm forgetting now what the
disease is something like smallpox
in order to kill them you know where
they were put together with someone
dying of disease to make sure the
disease spread
so that's it's not uh it's not an
accident
and now even if you do look at some
situation in which it quote-unquote is
an accident where they're able to say oh
well
well guess what the level of you know
medical care provided to these kids
compared to what would be provided for
white children in a white school
i mean even in circumstances where you
have the argument that this wasn't being
done intentionally and eugenically
which again in my experience based
memory it very often was
and i just say this also has to do with
um religious
eugenics that they would actively
prevent
people who continued the indigenous
faith or people who just hated
christianity
they were either traditionalists or just
rejected christianity that those would
be the people they tried to kill
and those would be the people they tried
to render infertile incapable of having
their own children
whereas the people who accepted
christianity they would try to save and
try to let them live and let them have
children so
that kind of thing was was ongoing but
um
anyway um
it's a dark history however what was
discovered in canada that caused this
this current fad of people pretending
they care people have never done the
level of reading i've done
i'm not i'm not the world's greatest
expert but compared to other white
people in canada
it's shocking how how ignorant everyone
here is
um but no we are not talking about a
mass grave
we are not talking about a german
holocaust style extermination of people
we are talking about 6
000 people who died as a consequence of
a project of cultural genocide that was
carried out in a very
ramshackle roughshod way um that did
include
explicit eugenics that did include
killing people through disease did
include bodies being buried and covered
up
and and rape and all this other stuff
but
no we're not talking about gas chambers
and we're not talking about mass graves
in that sense so let's start with with
halifax here because this one really
touches me you'll see this is very few
words i'm going to write to you from the
newspaper
quote a task force from last year
recommended that the name of cornwallis
park be changed
edward cornwallis the founder of the
city infamously offered a bounty
on the scalps of mcmac people in 1749
it was renamed tuesday to peace and
friendship
park problem solved
though not specifically linked to the
kamloops discovery i.e the discovery of
215 graves it happened in the immediate
aftermath
now i remember as a child and as a
teenager
trying to talk to others other people my
own age
about the fact that we i.e white people
in canada
not my own relatives whatever my
relatives are jewish immigrants and so
on and so forth as you guys know
um that white people did
actually pay to scalp
native people and now some of you might
be europeans who don't know some of you
are english the second
you might not know the use of scalp as a
verb
okay let's let's be let's be clear this
is scalp
as a verb not a noun
this is white people at the church
and some extended places like city halls
paying
a reward for for others
to go out murder indigenous people
take a knife go around the skull and
take off the top part of the hair and
the skin from their head
and then bring this human remain bring
this piece of the corpse
to the church to the chapel to city hall
to the authorities
to be paid a reward for the native
people
that they had killed now
it gets darker because it wasn't just
white people who were paid to kill
native people
there would be some native people who
were allied with the white people
and who were at war against another
tribe of native people
who got involved in this and we have a
whole cultural phenomenon
of scalping that most people blame the
indigenous people for us if it were part
of their culture
before europeans got there and it wasn't
you know this is a european idea
of uh scalping and paying awards
um our native people up here you know
whether you're talking about the
iroquois
the ojibwe or what have you um you know
to generalize about the northeast of the
continent
you know so canada adjacent parts of the
united states
you know they had a culture
of going to war for honor
all right this is a big deal not for
money you know the idea of being a
mercenary the idea of money
is kind of foreign let's let's be real
okay they did not
they don't have a mercantilist culture
when europeans got here
all right they would risk their lives
yes for a ceremony where they were
presented
with a feather and then they would be
proud and they would show
unbelievable fearlessness in battle that
all the europeans
were amazed with and sorry they weren't
naked they weren't people who lacked
clothing by the way this is another
misconception before i mentioned the
misconception that they that they had
quote unquote red
skin actually coming from the wearing of
colored paints which is something we had
coast to coast so by the way in eastern
canada we had them
they painted themselves ceremonially but
here here on the west coast also they
painted themselves with the
ceremony so yeah but anyway the the
whole red to skid
thing is a misconception but there were
paintings and there were drawings and
there were written descriptions
celebrating these guys going into battle
either completely naked
or almost naked like you know in a
loincloth or like like they will not
everywhere right
it's not that they didn't have clothes
it's a cold cloth they had clothes and
again they're also so
they had beadworking and they had quite
elaborate beautiful clothes their
clothes were quite impressive
to europeans they were going into battle
naked voluntarily for
honor to make a name that was their
culture
and again i am generalizing here about
several different language groups and
several different tribes
over an area i'm not generalizing all
the way down to
uh the aztecs in mesoamerica and i'm not
generalizing
all the way down to mexico and brazil
but in this if you're talking about
quebec ontario michigan this part of
north america
even down to new york state and so on
you know
it is a european idea to pay
a bounty in money for tracking and
killing a criminal that comes out of
european culture
they had come on the idea of having a
wanted poster to kill someone and pay
reward this is
so quintessentially european and then
this was extended to
scalping as described and this did then
it did transform some native cultures
you can look at it in case the case but
then the idea of oh when you kill
someone in war you take this
take this trophy so by the way guys i'm
not glorifying the
the first nations culture there were
horrible things about how they fought
wars
they killed each other they enslaved
each other slavery was very real
in north america before europeans got
here and they tortured
one another to death they did not
torture each other to get confessions or
get
information they again tortured people
who have been captured in war out of
this bizarre
sense of honor um yeah i could i could
describe that
torture too so there were terrible
things about the native culture and that
is
these things too this is part of the
reason why many of them were interested
in the new ideas that were coming from
europe
and becoming a part of the christianized
literate more technologically advanced
you know european culture so i just say
there's
you know there were people within that
culture who thought we can do better
hear our new ideas these people come
with books and
firearms and pardon me all right
so i was gonna say was when i was a kid
and when i was a teenager i can remember
talking
to other young people my age about this
about the history of scalping
on the east coast of canada and they did
not believe me you know this is before
the internet this is before
google stuff just stays with me it did
they did not believe me and here we are
you know now of course these things are
easy to google and whatever now i'm 40
years old
but i remember the level of denial
and apoplexy and just what are we
supposed to do with this history now you
know what i mean
the impasse we were all our culture that
one of the common
responses was just to deny that this
stuff had happened that's not to say oh
that must be communist propaganda and
there was communist propaganda
you say my own parents i mean i'm very
lord my father he wrote
communist propaganda you know cynically
employing kind of the history of native
people and stuff
there still is communist propaganda
myself but the real history is
is fairly uh horrifying so now that you
guys have this i'll just read that again
because it's only two seconds long
a task force from last year recommended
that the name of cornwallis park be
changed
edward cornwallis the founder of the
city infamously offered a bounty on the
scalps of
mcmack people the indigenous people
in 1749. the park was
renamed tuesday to peace
and friendship
is this is this what we asked the
germans to do after world war ii was
wrapped up it was like well
why don't you go around and rename all
the that's named after adolf hitler
and change it to just change the name to
piece of it
you know this is not this is not real
change this
is this is painting over genocide this
is painting over a
genuinely shameful history by the way
this is a pretty shameful newspaper too
just want to mention so this is from
canada's national post i'll just give
you the name to give credit where it's
due
um there's a real generational divide
within this newspaper
i assume a relatively young person wrote
this article and the first few pages of
the newspaper were written by young
people
and then when you get to the opinion the
op-ed to page business with sandwich
when you get to later
pages of the newspaper everybody is over
70 years old so there's a terrible
opinion piece here from conrad black
who's over seven years old
there's a terrible opinion piece from
rex murphy if you don't know who these
people are don't google it you do not
want to know who comrade black is you do
not want to know who rex burgess these
are guys over 70 crotchety old men man
like well i think this is out of context
but you know there's a younger
generation of people who are at least
looking at these disturbing facts
and kind of asking themselves the
question
what do we do now what do we do
next uh you know i don't think anyone in
the conservative party approves of this
history they
don't know what to do they haven't
thought about it remember these people
you people are my age i'm 42. if you are
you probably grew up playing pokemon
like it's been the shit's been going
these people grew up ignorant
you know if you're if you're 52 you grew
up playing atari and
the original nintendo you know original
8-bit nintendo entertainment system like
the fact that they wear a suit now and
run for government they're people just
like you and me they grew up
just as ignorant they watched the same
tv shows they watched sesame street they
watched
batman they watched spider-man like
these people are no different from you
and most of them they haven't read
aristotle and they haven't gone and
studied you know korean ojibway like i
did and they haven't gone into
humanitarian work
mostly people have led very shallow very
narrow-minded lives
and they get into government
oh scalping oh the park is named after
us
well i think we should change the name
to um
um peace and peace and friendship that
sounds about right to me you know these
are you these are your so-called
elected representatives you know take a
look take a look it is just as bad on
the left wing where everyone's trying to
be more woke
than everyone else because they're just
as they're just as ignorant just as
just as stupid and just as clueless just
as lacking in innovation
they have the disadvantage of being more
certain
more self-confident in their sense of
moral superiority
right that's a change that broadly
speaking about politics you know it used
to be
it used to be the right wing had the
moral superiority thing going on because
they believed in
jesus and that's that's draining out
of the race just you can just feel it
you just feel that breeze coming through
you know what i mean
you know that whole christian thing that
went on a style like sweatpants
you know it's not that nobody wears
sweatpants anymore
oh you know what i mean and you know on
the left wing now
that's really where you get this sense
of messianic conviction
about your own moral superiority all
right i'm happy to see your uh
i'm happy to see your comments as
they're coming in all right
so uh you guys may already know this
from my youtube channel you may not
because it's been alluded to at least
symbolically
toronto toronto the largest and
wealthiest city in canada
last sunday the statue of eritrean
ryerson
let me let me just say let me say have
you ever met anyone with the first name
eckerton
all right and my name is isil mazar okay
i mean i'm allowed i'm allowed it's like
only some people get to use the n-word
okay
i have a funny first name i'm allowed to
call it other people for having a funny
first name okay
edgarton ryerson okay all right last
last sunday the statue of edwards and
ryerson who contributed to the
development of
residential schools residential schools
meaning forced assimilation genocide
schools already described
was toppled at his namesake ryerson
university so two things here one it is
interesting to me that the press
reported that a thousand people
participated in that protest if you
watch the video on my channel which is
shadow band the hell
if you watch my white boy summer video
it opens
with a video of this statue being torn
down so i'll give that i'll give bill
here there were not
a thousand people at this protest i
don't even think there were 200 people
i would be surprised if we were
wondering it looks like a few dozen
people
showed up and uh and participated in
this i'll give you guys that link
um this so i'm gonna fight it so
at the beginning just the first 15
seconds or something it shows the statue
being torn down
that is the statue we're talking about
here in toronto from old eggerton
ryerson
so not sure by the way i'm totally happy
to have that question but naturally i
have made a video on that eh um
type that in i have made a video on
precisely that
question
once in a while i got to kind of stay on
topic and uh
so the video has uh gnome daguerre in it
i can give you the link
yeah i have a question here about why my
name is what it is and how it came to be
what it is
and yeah it's i remember that being a
pretty entertaining video actually
so that's 31 minutes long it's not that
it's not
the scheme of things it's a long start
it's action-packed i had a long story to
tell on that
but yeah i don't i don't think i should
uh digress oh yeah
no not sure i'm totally happy with the
question i just i call this uh
youtuber's privilege
i got a question the other day about uh
what i think about cats and dogs
domestication like look guys this is a
good question but i've i've made that
video you can watch
several hours i'll be telling you about
domestication of cats and dogs
i'm not going to stop or document now
i'll get into it so yeah once in a while
i just have to use this youtuber's
privilege and say yeah that's a good
question but
here's a 31 minute video i made already
telling you the whole story
um all right so i was just mentioning
my video is censored to hell white voice
summer
currently it's not just demonetized it's
not just shadow band
it is labeled as hate speech by
youtube's
sensors so you watch that i mean i don't
want to post
my video white boy summer which is
obviously both
pro-black people and anti-rioting and
anti-violence
there's nothing it's not racist against
black people it's not racist against
white people it's a totally
positive message all right that was
censored by youtube as hate speech i
wrote to them whatever was there two ago
about it i'll have to wait a couple days
and write to them again i'm gonna have
to fight it again and again and again
uh and maybe i'll get that overturned
and maybe not you know what i mean
so all right that turn of all comments
let's make this yet another cat themed
video
not every topic can be derailed in this
way um
anyway guys thanks if you're new to the
audience please do hit the thumbs up
button i'd be happy to have some more
people join us here
we're now we're now down to 39 but we
have a total of 47 thumbs up
i can't remember having more thumbs up
than people during the livestream so
some people were here before gave the
thumbs up and had to leave
they had to they had to go to the gym or
whatever they're doing on this
on this fine sunday um
all right so last sunday the statue of
eric ryerson who contributed development
of residential schools was
toppled at his namesake ryerson
university
an insider within ryerson university
forwarded to me a hilarious set of
emails
of the professors fighting with one
another and many of the more woke and
left-wing
professors are now referring to ryerson
university as
university x
refusing to use the name varsity they
also refuse to use the name toronto for
toronto and refuse to use them canada
for canada because all of those are not
folk enough
so the renaming of things you know the
rectification of names there's a term
from the history of chinese politics
the rectification of names
by thursday the head of the statue
showed up on a
spike in caledonia ontario the site of
an ongoing land dispute between the six
nations of the grand river
and local developers also in toronto
the church and wellesley village so
church in wellesley is the gay
neighborhood
it's the gay nightclub district right
besides that that's what's implied here
if you guys don't know toronto also in
toronto again the use of villages
because
you know that village has now been
associated with homosexuality
the village and you're just supposed to
know that they mean the gay district by
calling it's not
a village it's in the skyscrapers in the
middle of
all the buildings it's a village it's
you know
residential skyscrapers and office now
the village you know
you know what i mean the village the
area with the canine clubs
all right also in toronto the church
wellesley village
bia has asked the city to remove a
statue of alexander wood
the statue erected in 2005
was meant to honor wood as a forefather
of toronto's gay community
referencing a sketch pardon me
referencing
a sex scandal in 1810
but the bia said wood who died in 1844
in scotland was a member of the society
for
converting and civilizing the indians
he was on the the wrong side he was on
the wrong side
of the the genocide equation there
ottawa the federal capital
unsurprisingly
canada's capital has had a lot of stuff
named after the country's founding prime
minister
sir john a macdonald so i'm sure nobody
in this audience knows who
john a macdonald was none of the prime
minister's camp are famous we don't have
a single famous prime minister
ever there has never been one prime
minister of canada who is famous for not
even the guy
during world war ii i mean really what
do you think sound
learning the lessons of history here
people um but johnny mcdonald is the
closest thing to a famous name we've got
with anti-canada what is he famous for
well guess what genocide
once back when i was studying korean
ojibwe when i was in saskatchewan and i
was enrolled in those languages dealing
with those politics
i went into this somewhat old-fashioned
second-hand bookstore
i just said this is what secondary
stores were like before the internet
kind of destroyed everything
a whole bunch of uh handmade cheap
wooden shelves
and they had a section which was just
the biographies of canadian prime
ministers
this is how the publishing industry
works they all had similar covers
and there were similar sizes and similar
spines so there's this you can imagine
there's not really a big market for the
biography of canadian prime ministers
but if you publish a kind of official
scholarly
historical study of a given prime
minister of canada every university in
canada
every high school every library will
will order one
and maybe major universities in the
united states and europe
you know at the the most important
universities in the united states well
we need to have this book because this
is
this is the official political history
of this prime minister's time in office
in canadian politics maybe we're going
to need this book sometimes order
anyway remember they all had they had
kind of plain white covers it was this
kind of uniform style
so this was you know the official
biography of diefenbaker the official
biography of john mcdonald there's
nothing official about it by the way i'm
just saying that it's the
the publishing company is trying to
prevent present this as some kind of
official and definitive statement
but you know uh it's just a for-profit
enterprise
trying to impress you with the size and
scope and see
and i took every single one off the
shelf
and went through the index and went
through the table of contacts
trying to find one word about first
nations genocide
because each of these guys every single
one of them
had their part to play some more
important than others but all of them
all of them were part of this you know
this phenomenon of
you know step by step slow motion
genocide and it was never mentioned
in the index even once you couldn't find
the word
indian in the index you couldn't find
first nations of course
later you couldn't find indigenous you
couldn't find and yeah but look for like
the word korean ojibway too some other
words that might be
nope so you know that sense of it just
being
erased from history and
you know where it was mentioned it would
just
literally be like this meeting took
place at about the same time
that you know the settlement was signed
with the ojibwe people like
like it's mentioned in passing that way
just
oh yeah that was one of the other pieces
of legislation that like
no absolutely no interest in evaluating
just even in terms of outcomes guys the
majority of white canadians still to
this day are pro-genocide right but for
my parents generation and their members
they're they're all pro-genocide but can
you say if that's your ideology
did it work like what are the outcomes
when you look at these people today when
you look at what the residential schools
what this
stuff did to them are they dentists and
doctors and lawyers are they a
successful and productive part of this
society you've
genocidely created or are they including
your society i asked
melissa the other day have you even once
gone to the bank and had the bank teller
be an indigenous first nations person
like it's a reasonably
humble form of employment have you even
once gone to the bank to withdraw money
or cash a check
and the person on the other side of the
counter
is an indigenous person and now think of
all the ethnicities you have had i've
had jamaicans
working in banks i've had chinese new
orleans like every ethnicity from all
around the world
i have spoken to at a bank sometimes
they don't speak english well so if you
go to the bank
the person has this thick accent people
from all different backgrounds and
russians and koreans
i've met all sorts of people working
behind the count of the bank
never once in my life a first nations
person a native person a so-called
indian
never how's that how does that go like
if you believe in this if you
support john a macdonald or you support
the whole history we have this kind of
like obviously even if you thought that
was a good or moral
thing in the first place it failed so
why aren't you interested in the failure
why isn't there an evaluation of the
failure you know so anyway so now we're
in this situation in 2021
where all the name wants to do is is
tear the statues down
you know it's that's gonna help you know
rename the park rename the park peace
and friendship part you know that's
that's gonna help all right so in ottawa
we have a question of i mean what do you
do you're going to tear down the statue
of every single prime minister
and guys the thing is if there were
something positive coming out of it
i'd be cool with it like i've said that
if we were going to cancel the space
program
in order to do something positive that
money i'd be cool like that is
destructive i mean things would be lost
if you just suddenly scrapped the whole
the whole space program you know
scrap the missions tomorrow scrap the
international spirit this is a loss
right but if you say you know what in
canada we're going to stop spending
billions of dollars on what's ultimately
just a vanity project
to put the canadian flag into outer
space and have the canadian flag on a
shuttle
you know just you know what you
know what really matters
is the fate of our indigenous languages
and indigenous people and instead of
that being the lowest priority that's
going to be the operator
if that were happening i'd say hey great
destroy all the statues you want
destroy all the laboratories you want
for the space program you know put them
in mothballs
if i tear down the space shuttle
fro i care you know if you
want to tear down the space shuttle and
stomp on it and spread okay
but that's not the positive and
constructive point we have to actually
be interested in solving problems we
have to be actually
doing something new and productive and
different but if you were
if you were going to tear down the
statue of john a macdonald
there is not a single prime minister in
the history of this country whose
statute you're not going to
tear down right you're not going to it's
not like
oh well you know some of the prime
ministers were
none of them there were no exceptions
all of them were pro-genocide
down to and including jean-claude
jean-chretien if he were hauled into the
hague
he'd be guilty of crimes against
humanity so jean-claude hayes within my
lifetime if you guys know don't know
jungkook
absolutely john christian was just as
guilty of crimes against humanity as you
know the leaders of poverty-stricken
african countries who actually do get
pulled in and tried at the hague
you know i just say pull down the
statues of every single
again you know i'm not defending the
statues
i'm just saying why is it that all of
our interest
is in a purely theatrical and purely
destructive response to this
as opposed to something that's actually
substantive and actually
constructive like there's no interest in
solving the problem
you know there's no interest to even
talk about what that would mean what
would solving the problem mean at this
point
2021 you know anyway there's no interest
in the leftist notice they're right here
it's okay great so i have this this
outfit
okay all right sorry back to our five
senses
from the newspaper all right um
okay unsurprisingly canada's capital has
a lot of stuff named after the country's
founding prime minister sir john a
macdonald
including the sir john a macdonald
parkway the mcdonald cartier bridge
and the ottawa mcdonald cartier
international airport
in early june three ottawa city
councillors
called for a renaming of sir johnny
macdonald parkway
because of the complex jurisdictional
issues the parkway isn't a city
responsibility it involves the federal
government
and the national capital commission so
it is not clear what will happen with
the renaming of the
of the parkway the renaming of the
renaming of the highways so on and so
forth
protesters in kingston the hometown
of sir johnny mcdonald covered a statue
of him
in a tarp and are calling on the city to
remove it
meanwhile global news reported there are
calls for an indigenous art installation
to go beside the statue
so here in victoria oh yeah they just
canceled
other people are just canceling the
celebration of canada day you know well
that'll
that'll help
a few other renamings a few other
statues torn down
just a few days after the the discovery
of kamloops was announced so just a few
days after the
discovery of the 215 corpses of dead
children
city council in charlottetown voted to
remove a statue of sir john a macdonald
it was taken down and put in the back of
a pickup truck
the next day quote a statue is not
history
by removing this statue it's not
removing any history
close quote uh councillor greg rivard
told the cbc
earlier this month so
what can i tell you folks pack it up
pack it in
your history is garbage get a new
history
in picton ontario the local
city council or county council voted to
remove a statue
of our former prime minister sir john a
from downtown picton
and to toss it into storage that statue
like others in the country
had red paint splashed on it
so nacho one of my regular viewers here
nacho says true history
is still not taught in schools well
you know i remember when i came back to
canada
i was actually coming back from laos but
my life already involved laos and
cambodia both in that whole region
uh i was backing up for something like
five days um
i had to get a new passport you know so
i did it i flew back i got a new
passport and then went back again
so i was camped for a couple days and i
met up with an old friend of mine
who i now haven't heard from i hadn't
heard from many years then i haven't
heard from many years now
um he's gone on to become a university
professor unlike myself
and i was telling him some of these
basic shocking facts about cambodia
he was saying that he had kind
of heard
firsthand and secondhand from noam
chomsky about cambodia you know noam
chomsky and people have
spent home shops and i was telling him
look
i don't know we're getting ready from
but the united states was on the
pro-communist
side in cambodia you know what the
americans were fighting
for communism yeah history is
complicated bro
um the united states was in a lot in in
an alliance
with china against rival communist
groups you know
so china the united states and the khmer
rouge the cambodian economy
on the same side he was really shocked
by this and he responded in the same
way kind of saying that it's kind of
horrifying that the truth isn't taught
in schools
or something and you know i really
challenged him that i said to him
you know is it too much to expect you
to go and get an encyclopedia off the
shelf
like is it too much to expect you to do
a little bit
of research for yourself like you know i
don't
i don't expect i remember saying the
wording here is not that different i
could i could reconstruct the whole
conversation i'm cursed with their
account memory for these things
um you know
i don't expect my ideology to be taught
by the schools
and i don't expect my moral concerns my
ethical agenda to be reflected in
encyclopedia britannica
for example you know what i mean i think
that's an unreasonable
expectation you know what i mean um
you know there are very difficult
questions about what you've done schools
but like
let's say this for example you guys many
of you have heard what i have to say
about christianity
right i'm an atheist i'm
i am not a mild atheist you know
if i were a dictator of canada or
something would i
put my anti-christian ideology into
schools
no i mean i think you really have to
make a kind of responsible
set of decisions and recognize look what
teachers should say
in the classroom is not the same as what
i should say on youtube
you know i think i think there are tough
questions to me sorry there are
tough tough decisions to be made there
now you know are the right decisions
being made right now
no no they're not um
[Music]
but i'm just i'm just encouraging you to
examine
nihilistically you know your your own
assumptions
now look so germany is being mentioned
as an example here very
various different ways switzerland is an
even better
example right oliver how honest
is the swiss school system going to be
about switzerland's role in the
holocaust
you know like how honest
is poland gonna be about poland's role
in the holocaust like if you guys don't
know what polls
polish people is paul offensive now
what polish people generally do you know
is to
insist no no no all of that was because
of the germans like we were good and
pure and fought against the germans the
germans just came here and they carried
out these atrocities on our soil
but poles weren't both of course if you
do a little bit of ring
the polish people were incredibly
anti-semitic then they're still
incredibly anti-semitic now
you know um
[Music]
is it reasonable to expect the
government-funded polish education
system
to teach the people of poland an
indictment of
of polishness you know is it expectable
to teach the
is it respectable for is it is it
are we going to demand that canadian
schools or commit canadian textbooks
you know engage in a kind of demolition
of canadian ideology and canadian
history i think that's for people like
me to do
i think that's for intellectuals i think
it's for newspapers to do too by the way
i mean i think it's for all of us it's
out in the panics
to do right but you know how do you
teach the history of germany to german
children how do you teach the history of
switzerland does swiss children poland
the polish children
you know how do you teach the history of
israel to israeli children and you know
if we're talking about schools and
children's children that's great
that's great for full-time
you know uh
just mention this it's hard for
historians to be honest themselves or
with themselves
i bought this book partly because i was
wondering how honest it was
it was going to be so this is about
american history
1600 to 1675 when things are
real genocide babe do you want to just
grab the other book on genocide the one
that has genocide
forgetting the name now right surviving
genocide
it's it's hard for people to be honest
about this
and you know it's hard to put yourself
in the mindset
of people who really were this religious
so this is surviving genocide
uh another book i've read two percent of
or five percent of or something
um you know these not books i've read
they're books i'm mentioning as examples
but okay like you know and i did a book
review of another
book i don't have here on paper called
the other slavery talking about the
enslavement of indigenous people
you know i think it's really important
for you and me
right now on youtube to be honest about
this and to take it all the way
you know what i mean and i think it's
important for scholars and authors and
researchers and newspapers
i think it's important in the panics you
know in the public
space for deciding what democracy is
going to do in future
i think that's really important but i
can't
really turn to the school system let's
let's say
you can't you can't expect your teachers
to do your thinking for you
you can't expect your teachers to do
your feeling for you know what i mean
your teachers are going to teach you how
to do long division
and then you know when it comes to
genocide
you're going to have to do the math you
know i think there's really a sense in
which
the the school system certainly the
government school system can't do
people's thinking for them and can't do
their feeling for them
and can't come to these kinds of moral
conclusions for them
and of course it's very scary that the
non-government
school system does all those things if
you go to a muslim school
what do you think they teach you you
know um if you go to
a catholic school if you go to a mormon
school what do you think they teach
it's predominantly um religious schools
i have read about
a couple of black nationalist schools
so this these are people who you know
politically are not so different from
the black panthers
um they're they're not part of the black
panther movement but there have been
black nationalist schools that are
teaching a
very warped version of american history
where it's you know a kind of
revolutionary black
left-wing extremist version of american
history
and you know they do that because enough
people donate money to support them like
religion
ultimately it relies on donations to
upgrade school and they they feel
they're empowering black youth
to go into the world with a very
different set of attitudes
you know um so ugly bob
says i'm not calling him ugly that's his
name in british columbia every private
school
including catholic muslim and jewish
schools get 50
or 35 percent of funding from the
government per student
um so bob broadly speaking
in canada religious education gets
government money
period yes the rules are a little bit
different in ontario and a little bit
different
in quebec and so on correct
but that is it you know yes we do not
have
separation of church and state and we
never have and our
constitution does not guarantee you or
suggest to you that you will ever have
separation state
for some reason you know the most um you
know the people who are most different
is that
the english the british themselves
religious schools are a huge problem
within england
very old england and people only started
to question it when they saw the reality
of the muslim schools
but catholic and protestant schools are
really an even bigger problem
for anyone so nobody nobody really is
dealing with that
okay guys we are coming up on the the
two hour mark now i'm going to slow down
a little bit i know
i've been i know i've been doing all the
talking in this conversation but guys is
there anything else you'd like me to
address is anything else you'd like me
to cover
in this um you know i i i could
launch into my long delayed discourse on
napoleon
i've done a lot of reading about
napoleon i never made any youtube videos
talking about it but uh why don't i just
take a minute and ask if there's
anything you guys want to hear if
anything you guys are
interested in hearing me speak on and
then i mean my perspective we can we can
call it a wrap to our live stream is
good life
yes so edgy intellects mentions the
situation in germany
where not just schools but a whole lot
of other social institutions
are run by the church but funded by the
state
yes in germany there is a unique system
of sort of
taxation of collecting tithes
for the church and i'm very surprised to
see germans who are overseas still send
that money back for the church
and church programs um
france too is a very hypocritical
attitude on this that i have called out
they
claim they're a secular country but you
may recall
i was attacking them in the interest of
re pardon me i was attacking them on the
issue of rebuilding
the cathedral in paris the notre dame
cathedral
there are innumerable ways in which the
government supports and sustains the
christian dominance of society the side
i don't
know about in germany you know in
contrast united states america is really
the emotional
side of it and i actually knew i knew
one guy who was a schoolteacher
in the uh well okay i'm just remembering
i was gonna say he was a schoolteacher
of in the in the religious education
system but actually he
taught religion in the government system
and he was
a complex situation jurisdictionally but
he talked about some of those issues
what i don't know about is you know
emotionally do
germans really go to summer camps
and go horseback riding and go camping
in church groups that effectively
christianize them
um i i'm just saying that's the side of
it i don't know in america that stuff is
very effective
people are really kind of radicalized as
christians through summer camps through
sports teams and music groups and
everything that the churches
uh run it just seems to me that the cr
the germans i have met
their christianity is so shallow and so
vague they've become such a pagan
country again
you know to me to me a german you know
for whom christianity means anything at
all is incredibly rare i'm an atheist
but i just say i don't know
maybe it deserves to be studied why is
it
why is it that religious groups in in
germany are so ineffective
in doing that but i just mentioned you
know um
you know even the studies of the
right-wing of the the fascists the
neo-nazis in germany
those guys barely have any connection to
christianity whereas the right-wing in
the united states is very powerfully
um connected to christianity so um
a couple a couple more good questions
here um
frida asks are you still reading sallust
i have finished
sallust so i don't think there's any
more of salas for me to read
james todd what is your opinion of
nelson mandela
so you know um
my opinion about nelson mandela is
negative you know
i think that most people are unaware of
the extent to which his
political position was created by his
birth
that he was born the equivalent of
royalty
you know and he participated in tribal
ceremonies
that established him as a you know a
significant person in that way fixed by
birth
and they're unaware of what the reality
of the truth
and reconciliation commission was and
what it did what the so-called truth
reconciliation process was
once nelson mandela got out of jail and
and took over power
now the other thing that people lie to
themselves about is that nelson mandela
transformed society while he was in jail
well he wasn't it was all the people who
were not in jail
who fought in a struggle to liberate
south africa and although i am an
anti-communist many of those people were
communists
or they were willing to cynically employ
support from the communists communism
was
a significant concern there so with
nelson mandela there were kind of
three parts to his life there's his
status before he goes to prison
there's the period in prison and there's
the period after he's out of prison
and i think all three people have you
know
modern observers certainly from outside
there but basically invented
myths about like how did he become an
important political leader before he
went to prison
what did he accomplish by being in
prison you know like if you attribute
the political transformation took place
while he wasn't present to him
you're really just totally ignorant of
the real the real history of what
happened
and who the rebel groups were and who
and even who the white people were who
went negotiated with them because
ultimately the changes that africa
happened
when a young generation of more
reasonable white business leaders
basically
white multi-millionaires the wealthiest
of the wealthy in south africa
went and met with the rebel leaders and
you know negotiated a
transition um so you know to attribute
it to nelson mandela's
sitting in prison is the kind of myth
and then after he got
out of prison you know that so-called
truth and reconciliation uh commission
and that that in itself really is a
crime against humanity
and there's been a very very strange you
know
um dilution of the concept
of justice so through the reconciliation
commission
you take a guy in the majority of cases
these people were themselves black
most of these sessions concerned black
people who were employed
by the white people that were employed
by the white state but the apartheid
state you know
the pro-white government but they
employed black people to do most of
their dirty work
you will not be suppressed now so you
have a black guy
sitting in a church or town hall and
you know people read out the complaints
against him
that he murdered people that he tortured
people
there will be an old woman there who
says i remember you
you tortured my son you know my son was
tortured and beaten to death or whatever
her story is
there was all this terrible violence
terrible things that were done to
sustain the old regime
and again a lot of it was done by black
people black people who were
for the regime you know and then
everyone says well there's no use
putting anyone in prison there's no use
holding anyone
accountable responsible for their
actions we'll all just go home and
pretend this never happened
this is so-called truth and
reconciliation
now of course it doesn't establish truth
it's not actual research
you know and doesn't accomplish
reconciliation
and it also doesn't offer anything that
anyone could call
justice you know um i heard an
interesting debate in the american
senate
i'm still staying on the same telephone
i heard there's a debate in the american
senate the other day
where they were talking about the extent
to which
guilty people can change and deserve a
second chance so you know this is
because of sentencing reform which is
more or less a constant in the american
senate american system of government
and i was like oh well you know somebody
could commit a heinous crime when
they're
19 years old but then 10 years old later
or 20 years later they're a totally
different person
so they should be given a second chance
the the most basic concept of
accountability
the most basic concept that
actions have consequences you know that
is disappearing
from the world and it's so sad and it's
so sick
to in effect blame the victims in south
africa which is what nelson mandela did
say like oh well you have to deal with
yours your feelings
you know don't put your guilt trip on
someone else
you feel bad because your son was
tortured death and executed
and this same script they attempted in
cambodia you know like oh well we're
going to have a truth and reconciliation
process in cambodia we're going to you
know we're just going to declare
the people who carried out massacres for
the communist regime
that they shouldn't be punished they
shouldn't be held accountable for
for anyone you know it's true
but fundamentally irrelevant
that people change people change one of
the few guys
who was put on trial in cambodia is
called comrade
this is normally spelled like dutch it's
a very peculiar name in terms of how
it's latinized anyway
you may or may not have heard about this
guy when he was on trial in cambodia
and he really was the head of the most
notorious torture
chamber in downtown phnom penh the
capital city of cambodia
so he was directly responsible for
people being interrogated and tortured
to death
um so on and so forth and you know after
the war ended after communism ended
he got with a christian missionary group
and did humanitarian work and did all
these good things he had you know he had
lived
a morally i'm i'm not in favor of
christianity i'm not
but um you know he laid uh he led a
morally exemplary life in many ways he'd
done charitable things and good works
you know guess what the people you
killed are still dead
the people you tortured who survived
there were only a few most of them were
killed the vast majority
you know they're still out here with
physical disabilities because of the
torture
inflicted on them you know and the
consequences for the whole country
the whole country was held in a state of
terror during these years where everyone
was being tortured and executed like it
doesn't just directly affect the people
towards
jesus those consequences are still with
us though
you are responsible for your decisions
your actions have consequences and they
don't just have consequences for
everyone else
they have consequences for you because
you made the choice
you did it and to me what nelson
mandela's truth and reconciliation
process means is that when political
leaders do evil things
they have consequences for everyone else
but not for the leaders you know
or when military men when soldiers
because it may not be a political leader
may just be a guy as a local commander
or something commits some atrocities or
tortures people or kills people
oh well that has that has consequences
for society as a whole and we should all
kind of do some hand wringing and
apology sessions and talk about
guilt and remorse and feelings and
resentment
and then we should do this sort of
bizarre
post-modern christian thing and pretend
that all
is is forgiven you know so there's kind
of the consequences for the victims
um but not for the victors not for the
enough the people who
committed these crimes it's it's
ridiculous
and you know some people who support the
nelson mandela approach to
politics certainly in cambodia for
example
some of them do so cynically there were
people in cambodia
who openly and strategically said here's
what we're going to do
they would play the nelson mandela card
they would talk about
truth and reconciliation
and then they would repackage the
communist party
to become sen's cambodian people's party
and not just take over the government
but continuously control the government
this was a way for
the khmer rouge for exactly the people
who had been the worst communists
because there were different
camps of communists but so that the most
terrible the most corrupt the most
guilty the most violent
communists could remain in power in
cambodia
you know with with deploying cynically
this card
saying okay we'll have this symbolic uh
truth and reconciliation commission
and we'll all praise as the highest
moral value
this armistice and this idea of
non-violence oh yeah we want
non-violence now
not before when they were murdering
millions of their own people you know oh
okay now we'll yeah we'll talk about
gandhi and nelson mandela and so on
and you know if those people instead
had been put in prison like the
nuremberg trials in germany or whatever
you want you want to use as an example
if they had been put in prison or if
they had been executed because frankly
these if these aren't death penalty
offenses you know sort of
comrade for example there have been
attempts to estimate how many
murders he's responsible for and its
numbers are baffling
and by the way they had no gas chambers
you know bullets were scarce
uh many of the people who were executed
the most of them were exceeded by conrad
doy they were starved
and then they were beaten to death they
were hit over the head with a wooden
block and put into a mass grave
because bullets were scarce no gas
chambers yeah
and the starvation was horrible too i
can tell you all kinds of details about
oh yeah well you know truth and
reconciliation
you know really um but this is my point
so-called mercy has consequences
actually now that i think of it i was
just reading machiavelli talk about that
too
um you know you think there were
consequences for enforcing the law but
there were no consequences for
not enforcing the law there are no
consequences for mercy well you have
so-called mercy
towards these killers these violent
corrupt terrible people in cambodia who
had been the ruling elite in case you
hadn't heard
you know they ruled they ruled parts of
the country for that whole time i mean
oh sorry
i'm simplifying the history slightly
because actually you know there was a
border within cambodia and the armies
moved back and forth so
uh the khmer rouge weren't continuously
in control of the whole country but
anyway
but they continuously existed and were
in power and they became
more corrupt with time of course they
are more involved with cross-border
smuggling and
the other way is that military
hunters make money um
you know your so-called truth and
reconciliation commission
handed the leadership of the country
over those people and they and their
children and grandchildren
still control this country to this day
it didn't have to be that way okay you
could have put
the people who were guilty on trial you
could have had law and order and justice
and you could have established cambodian
democracy
you know you could have you frankly you
could have disqualified
everybody who fought on either side in
that way you could have said look
it doesn't even matter if you think
you're on the side of the angels in the
cambodian civil war the revolution no
none of you no war veterans can run
let's let's hand all the political
leadership
over to people who are under 20 years of
age for a while or something you know
you have a transition we say look
everybody who has blood in their hands
is excluded let's really have people
come up
who either you know were like not in the
country at all they were refugees who
weren't involved
or who were under 20 years old or
something under 30 years old
they were talking about you know let's
really change and let's get rid of
you know what was different so you know
there are there are terrible uh
consequences
now you tell me so look i am not an
africanist
i am not a specialist in africa you know
how much
has south africa really changed and how
much more
could it have changed if you know there
have been an interest in real
justice if actions had consequences
obviously south africa has changed in
some ways but i am suggesting to you
that it has not changed enough
okay lots of other good questions here
i'm just gonna scroll through and glance
that
a lot of them
uh okay so i think these will be real
quick just some quick q and a and then
we'll call it a call tonight
um daniel asks do you think that keeping
an oppressive system
can ever be worth it in order to keep an
economy
functioning we make that decision all
the time so sure it happens all the time
um you know
life is full of contradictions so sure i
mean one of the examples was the
military dictatorship
in greece you know modern greece you
know
um it was an anti-communist military
dictatorship in greece
and if you look into it it was really
necessary and really reasonable
and by the way it did allow people
freedom of speech it allowed people
way more freedom of speech than the the
greek orthodox church
would have allowed them the greek form
of christianity for the first time
under that dictatorship uh military
dictatorship
they had nudity in public cinemas they
had sexy movies
like you have in london or paris or
something you know
there actually was a period of
transition that way but sure there can
be circumstances where
economic and military extremes make you
[Music]
tolerate oppression because
you know to paraphrase
lenin lenin said every society is just
three meals away from a collapse you
know like if people if people can't eat
for just three meals in a row
you've got some kind of revolution
happening now i don't
sympathize with i don't uh lenin but in
this in this context sure
you know what what you can call um
economic
uh stability is you know uh often i mean
if you think economic stability doesn't
matter well does starvation matter
and those are the things we're dealing
with quite rapidly when um
when political conditions fall apart
um thanks uh shout out to nicole who's
watching from
uh ontario somebody asked me my opinion
on on bitcoin but i've done quite a few
videos on bitcoin just lately so if you
just scroll down and search for the word
bitcoin on the front of my
my youtube channel we get a question
here quote do you think the stock market
is evil
this is something i'm happy to speak
about because we we talk a lot about we
read a lot about the stock market on
this household
um you know fundamentally
the stock market is similar to a
business partnership
so i'm going to talk this through
briefly
but i think it's worth saying because a
lot of people don't understand what the
stock market is even if they think they
do
let's say you have a younger brother
who's going to start a barber shop
and your younger brother says guess what
it's a lot of money to start a
barbershop
and your younger brother says you know
um
yeah yeah somebody's encouraging me to
do more videos in the stock market i've
been very talented to do that so we've
talked about that a lot here to what
extent i should do videos talking about
stock market and somewhere
so this is genuine interest for me it
has been since high school
since my second last year of high school
or something i've been very interested
in
you know macroeconomics and
microeconomics and stuff okay
so everybody's back to my basement let's
say you have a younger brother
who's going to start a a barber shop
and he wants you to loan him 100
000 now if you do this
your brother says every year he's going
to pay you back a certain percentage
with a certain amount of interest well
you know what let's let's not even say
that
let's say he's not sure how much he can
pay you maybe
for the first couple of years he won't
have that much clientele he's going to
pay you a certain percentage
of the income of the gross revenue and
that
will you'll keep track of it and he will
eventually pay you back
you know the value of your of your
investment so families do get into these
things and
you may do this and you have absolutely
no right and no ability to influence
your brother's business like you show up
as business and say the music is
terrible the lighting is terrible
and he says well i took your money and
now you you don't get to choose the
music that i play in my barbershop
you're a silent investor you know or
what have you
the stock market is a way for you to be
able to take your hundred thousand
dollars and give it to apple computer
instead for them to make money with for
you to take 100 000 and be able to give
it to disney
corporation with and you get to
participate in the profitability of the
success of
apple computer and you know disney
corporation and so on and so forth
so that is it at its most morally pure
and i don't see that as evil are there
problems
are there disadvantages to having a
society organized around the stock
market
yes and it's interesting to note that
like mainstream centrist politics
not just the left wing or something are
really aware of this one of the problems
is that the stock market
massively advantages established
businesses
it makes it very difficult to have small
startups to have new businesses
um that can compete with anything or do
something really original
now you know i was looking at this for
the state of michigan but generally all
of the states and all of the provinces
in all of the government's world they're
aware of that
to some extent you have really muscular
government programs
to help and encourage and support small
businesses because they know
it's small businesses and new businesses
that are do not
have the money flowing into the stock
market they don't get to play so this is
just one
example now another thing that's kind of
evil about the stock market is just
human attitudes towards it you know a
fool in his money are soon parted
there are a lot of fools willing to part
with their money
um you know obviously i think a great
deal of what's going on in the stock
market today is
ridiculous and i hope nobody gets hurt
but i'm completely certain millions of
people
so you know that side of it again you
can kind of criticize in terms of its
consequences for society as whole
but let me ask you this for anyone who
says the stock market is evil which i
don't agree with
but if you think the stock market is
evil
why is blackjack legal
why is the las vegas casino as an
institution
legal you know even some forms of online
video games that don't do anything
positive
for the world people lose both time and
money
um there are so many things that should
be
illegal or should be morally rectified
and limited and regulated before the
stock market
there's there's fundamentally nothing
evil
about oh i'll give you an example this
is a real example me and melissa have
jokes about a lot of time
i heard on the news and i heard pretty
much the day it happened
within 24 hours that one of the crown
princes of saudi arabia one of the very
politically important people in saudi
arabia who also
is an incredibly wealthy person had
invested a huge amount of money in
neo-geo so this is snk
corporation of korea famous for the
neo-geo video game system which is part
of my own childhood and which i've
talked about in the youtube channel and
to some extent it's part of my life now
how many weeks has it been or how many
months have been played in the ogo game
i don't know but
we don't we don't really ever play them
but i do actually know own some
neo geo hardware and software um
anyway you know the crown prince of
saudi arabia too
probably he probably he has childhood
memories of the neo-geo video games or
something
and i remember saying the melissa at
that time said look if we take
five thousand bucks and put it into this
stock right now i can guarantee you know
it's
it's going to go up and i don't know why
the crown prince of saudi arabia
probably knows something we don't know
you know but this company some people
believe that it's
going to be able to expand its market
share in the video game market
you know if you really think it's so
evil
for people to get excited about a
company like this neo geo
snk corporation and say hey i think this
company is making great products
i think they're going to expand
everything to grow and i want to join in
i want to give them my five thousand
dollars or whatever it is
i want to participate in that growth or
that success and i'll be
paid i'll be paid some small amount or
maybe i'll lose money
maybe i'm wrong maybe maybe maybe i mean
what i said most of the time was also
look
uh neogeo had just put up this great
product that i've reviewed on my channel
they put out this great arcade stick
it's a joystick with built-in
hardware and stuff um it's a joystick
that can directly play video games or
can be used as a joystick with the
differences great product
a great product that originally came out
at a great price um
maybe that's all they've got maybe they
can't follow that up with another great
product or ten more great products but
maybe that's it you know what i mean
it's like it's not like the iphone where
they're gonna put out a new one every
year
so maybe the stock will collapse but no
very fundamentally there isn't something
evil about that
guys a youtuber i've known for years i
heard him just saying on his channel he
actually actually it's a stock market
channel
you know his nose is is
broken and asymmetrical i never i just
assumed he was born with his nose
looking that way
and he happened to mention on a video i
saw that no it's because he played rugby
as a as a kid as a teenager i assume you
know
now his nose is broken for the rest of
his life people do downhill skiing
people play rugby people gamble
at casinos there are so many
things in our society that have
predictable inevitable negative
consequences
and where nothing positive can ever come
out of it you know what i mean
so if if you are of such moral
scruples if you are at a level of moral
purity where you look at the stock
market as something that should be
illegal or something that you regard as
immoral
whoa you know what isn't you know
where where are you drawing the line
with any of these other things no
it's funny to me that these two are in
one one question no paragraph
right between them quote what do you
think about freud and psychoanalysis
question mark
new sentence have you ever played garu
mark of the wolves
yes video game for the uh that's a kdr
[Laughter]
uh okay guys i think it's been a stream
we're past the two hour mark i think we
should wrap it up
uh at this point thank you all for the
encouragement
and i you know i do appreciate it you're
writing in and saying you'd like to hear
me talk more about
particular stocks or what's going on in
stock market i
i'd like to talk about that too but you
know
are you gonna make content for an
audience that doesn't exist
it's very it's very challenging uh kind
of a friend of a friend i could say
sent to me said to me recently that she
really thought i should do language
education videos
teaching english to chinese people
if japanese people want to tune in they
can but i'd be presuming the audience is
chinese
teaching english for politics
chinese people so political vocabulary
political history
you know and then i'd be able to speak a
little chinese and have chinese
um you know text on screen again
japanese people would also be able to
make use of that
it's like okay so i'm not just teaching
you english i'm teaching you the how to
use
english in a sophisticated way to
understand what's happening in the news
to talk about politics
to articulate and contrast sophisticated
political ideas so you know what that's
a
great idea for a series of videos
but nobody is going to pay me to do that
you know like that when you really think
about it that sounds like a full-time
job so to take on that mission and that
sense of purpose
um not only without the possibility of
payment
but with the very great likelihood that
what you have to say will never be heard
uh that's that's very very tough to do
and i say that as somebody now who is
working very hard to finish writing a
book
my book no more manifestos it will never
earn me any
money and it is very likely it will be
read by
fewer than 500 people now i hope that
all of you in this audience we have
50 people in the audience right now
apparently we had a few more before
i hope that all 50 of you will order and
buy a copy of my form manifestos
even if you have no intention of reading
it i hope you just have it you know as a
as a memento as a keepsake it would look
good in a book it's a great title we
have
an artist working on the cover actually
so it should be a great cover too i
haven't seen the final artwork for the
for the cover
you know um but to to make the sacrifice
and set down your
your your thoughts knowing that you are
you know to some extent you know
screaming
into the face of a society that's not
only indifferent toward what you have to
say but is really quite hostile
and contemptuous and dismissive towards
every episode
you know it's a it's a very very tough
commitment to make but if i'm going to
do that
if i'm going to stand up and and perform
my philosophy like i'm saying perform
you know if i'm going to tell my story
if i'm going to write my book then it's
got to be mine
right and you know something like
language lessons something like stock
market analysis
advice that's not my story to tell
you know that's not my philosophy that's
a job
and i i don't think it's unreasonable
even in the 21st century
to say um if you want me to do this job
in the parlance of our times you
pay me
brandon williams is surprised to hear
that i'm watching a book yes i'm at the
very end of finishing the book
if you want to know more about the book
you can support me on patreon you can
read the first several chapters for free
there already as pdfs
you can also just follow me on instagram
for free because
i am giving updates about the book on
instagram and
if or when it's available in one of
their format you will definitely find it
by instagram i will mention you on
youtube
but if you don't want to spend one
dollar a month on patreon and read the
first several chapters now
stay in touch on instagram or however
you can
great talking to you guys